When you start up an editor you will see the so-called main window. The
main window of the diagram editors contains the following parts:

Tiled Buttons.
--------------
On the left edge of the main window of the diagram editors there are two
sets of tiled buttons containing a graphical symbol. The set called "Nodes"
is used to set the current node type and the set called "Edges" is used 
to set the current edge type. When you pass the mouse pointer over a 
tiled button for a second or two, a one line bubble help clue is popped 
up giving the full name of what the tile represents.

Menu bar.
---------
The menu bar located under the main window's title bar organizes most of
the commands and features of the editors. Some frequently used commands 
can also be called directly, without going through a menu, by means of 
a keystroke shortcut, called an accelerator.

Drawing area.
-------------
The drawing area, also called pane or canvas, is used to create, edit 
and delete the graphical items of your document by using the mouse. The 
whole drawing area is larger than the main window. You can use the 
scroll bars on the right and bottom side of the drawing area to view the
drawing area that requires more space than is available at any one time.

Document type and document name.
--------------------------------
These are two text fields above the drawing area. The document type is
fixed. The document name can be changed by editing the text field and 
then typing <return>. 

Modified toggle. 
----------------
This is visible as a toggle above the drawing area. When the document 
has been modified, but it is not saved yet, it is on. 

Status area.
------------
The result of the last issued command is displayed below the drawing 
area in an unshaded and uneditable text field.

Arrow Buttons.
--------------
In the bottom-left corner of the main window there are four arrow 
shaped buttons by which you can move the entire document over the 
drawing area. Amidst these four buttons there is a button labeled "C", 
by which you can center the drawing on the first page in the drawing 
area. 
 
Autoresizing toggle.
-------------------
When this toggle is on, the shapes in the diagram are automatically 
resized to make it fit the text that they contain.

In-line edit toggle.
--------------------
When it is on, text can be typed directly into the drawing area. When 
it is off, text editing takes place in a text edit dialog.

Hierarchic document toggle.
---------------------------
When this toggle is on, the document is hierarchic: if a node encloses
another node, the latter is a child node of the former. This is indicated
by the index. When the toggle is off, enclosure of nodes has no special
meaning.

Directory. 
----------
The name of the project or working directory is visible in an editable 
text field. You can edit this text field ended by <return> to change 
the project directory.

Scale value.
-----------
The current scale percentage is shown in the bottom-right corner. By 
performing the scale commands of the Scale menu this value is updated.

Logo.
------
This is the button in the top-right corner. This is the logo of the 
toolkit. Press this button to see an "about TCM" window.
