The page layout determines how a document is sent to the printer or 
saved as PostScript. When a document is printed or saved as PostScript,
each page that contains a part of the drawing is printed respectively 
saved. 

The Print menu contains the following entries:

Print (Ctrl+P).
---------------
You can send the drawing directly to a PostScript printer with this 
command. The default printer is the value of the printer name in the 
TCM configuration file $HOME/.tcmrc or $TCM_HOME/lib/tcm.conf. When 
this value is not set, the printer will be set to the value of the
PRINTER environment variable. In the Printer Options submenu you can 
see and modify the printer settings that are used.
 
Export (Ctrl+E).
----------------
This pops up a file selection dialog for saving the picture to some 
graphics format. Currently you can save as plain PostScript (the same 
as what is sent directly to the printer), Encapsulated PostScript 
(EPSF), PNG or the Fig format. EPSF is a format that is more suitable than 
plain PostScript for including drawings into LaTeX or Troff documents. 
The PNG format is a picture format comparable to the GIF format. It
can be included in most Word Processors and viewed by most web-browsers.
The Fig format can be read by the popular xfig drawing program. 
In the dialog there is an option menu called "Format for exported 
document", in which you can set the intended output format.

Show preview.
-------------
Starts up an external PostScript viewer, for instance ghostview, for 
previewing the document as it would be printed.
 
Printer Queue. 
--------------
Use this option to see the printer queue of the current printer in a 
pop-up window. By clicking on a line in the queue you select a print 
job. The "Remove" button tries to remove the selected job from the 
queue. "Update" redisplays the current queue. "Dismiss" removes the 
window. The toolkit uses external Unix programs for the printer queue. 
If it cannot find the right programs, it warns that the queue cannot be 
viewed or that jobs cannot be removed.

Printer Properties. 
-------------------
This is a menu that contains some options for the printer. The default 
values are read from the configuration file $HOME/.tcmrc (if it exists)
or from $TCM_HOME/lib/tcm.conf otherwise. In the Printer Options menu 
these values can be changed temporarily i.e. only during the lifetime 
of the editor. If you want to save the changed options you have to edit
the TCM configuration file. The TCM configuration file is only read 
when an editor is started.

The following print options can be changed:

Printer name.
-------------
The name of the PostScript printer.

Number of copies.
-----------------
How many copies are printed each time you print.
 
Print Command.
--------------
Unix command to print files.
 
Printer queue command.
----------------------
Unix command to show the printer queue.
 
Printer remove command.
-----------------------
Unix command to remove a print job from the printer queue.
 
Preview command.
----------------
Unix command to launch an external PostScript viewer.
 
Print colors.
-------------
Print colors (on) or print in gray-scale (off).

Print duplex pages.
-------------------
Causes the output to be printed in duplex mode, i.e. pages are printed 
two-sided if the printer supports that. The binding is as if the 
resultant pages are to be bound together with their leftmost edge.
 
Print tumbled pages.
--------------------
This option is only useful with the Duplex option on. It causes the 
"backside" pages to be flipped relative to the front side pages.
 
Print banner page options.
--------------------------
You can choose between printing the default printer banner page,
no banner page at all, or a special TCM banner page (that can be found
in $TCM_HOME/lib/banner.ps).


The Page menu commands determine the page layout. Any change in page 
layout is directly made visible in the drawing area. The page layout 
has effect when plain PostScript is generated either when the document 
is printed, previewed or exported as plain PostScript. The Page menu 
commands have no effect on the document when saved as Encapsulated 
PostScript, as this format is independent from the page layout by 
definition. The Page menu contains the following entries:


Page orientation.
-----------------
Sets the page orientation to Portrait (default) or Landscape. When 
the page boundaries are shown, you see that the boundaries are 
repositioned.
 
Show Page Boundary. 
--------------------
Draw or hide the page boundary. The positions of the boundaries are 
determined by the page size and the page orientation.
 
Page Size. 
----------
Sets the page size. The current available sizes are 
A4 (default, 210x297 mm.), A3 (297x420 mm.), Letter (8.5x11 inches), 
Legal (8.5x14 inches) and Executive (7.5x10 inches).
 
Include Page Numbers.
----------------------
This is an option in the Page menu to show page numbers. Page numbers 
will be shown and printed when that option is on. Page numbers are 
normally displayed at the bottom of the page, but when the document 
info is displayed as a footer, page numbers are displayed at the top of
the pages.

Include Document Info.
----------------------
This is a toggle menu which makes it possible to show information
about the document in the drawing area and on paper. This information 
can be added as a header or as a footer. The information consists of 
the document name and type, the creation date and time, the author,
the current tool, the current user and the current date and time.
