Tool for Transaction Decomposition Tables (TTDT).
-------------------------------------------------
According to this modeling technique, the entries in row 0 contain
transaction names. The entries in column 0 contain object class (or
entity type) names. The other entries contain zero or more action 
names. More about the constraints on TDTs can be found in chapter 7 
of the user's guide and more about the use of this notation technique 
can be found in appendix A of the user's guide.


Table Editors in General.
-------------------------
All table editors are very similar. With each table editor you can 
create and manipulate textual tables, i.e. tables in which the cells 
are filled with a multi-line text string.

When you start up a table editor, or issue the New command in a table
editor, a new table is created having N x M empty cells (by default,
N = 7 and M = 7). New rows and columns of empty cells can be created
with the Add Row and Add Column commands. Selected rows and columns can
be deleted with the Delete Rows and Delete Columns commands.

By default, the table is positioned on the drawing area having its 
top-left corner a little right below the top-left corner of the drawing
area. You can reposition the entire table by means of the four arrow
buttons in the bottom-left corner of the main window. The page 
boundaries are displayed. If you print the table or save it as plain 
PostScript, the table is positioned on the printed page exactly as it 
is positioned on the drawing area (what you see is what you print).
 
Each row and each column has an order number label. These labels are 
used to select an entire row or column or to move an entire row or
column to a new position. These labels cannot be edited or printed. In 
the View menu there is an option to hide the labels.

Specific Table editors impose certain constraints on the tables that 
are being edited. These are either immediately enforced (an attempted 
violation is immediately prevented) or soft constraints (the editor 
warns it, after it is asked to check the drawing). The soft constraints
are checked by the Check Document command in the Document menu.



